in this tutorial we will analyze
Berlin version of the Spanish party but
first a little history of the spanish party
how debut was first analyzed
outstanding chess players of 15 16 centuries
Spaniards and Lucian and Lopez as we already
know from lesson 71
spanish party begin next
by moves e4 e5 horse f3 horse c6 elephant b5 in
those times the main purpose of nursing elephant b5
was to create the threat of the e5 pawn modern
debut interpretations this is only the beginning
deep strategic plans to fight for
center and conservation initial initiative
however, Black’s position is very reliable
so with the right answers they have
there is every chance to get a good game
various systems of the Spanish party
usually divided by formal
a sign on the more ancient without a 6
and more modern with move a6
in this lesson we will look at the old
Berlin version of the Spanish party
introduced into modern practice
Vladimir Kramnik
this option determines the knight f6 move
black attacked the pawn e4 castling this
White shows that they are ready
sacrifice this pawn why because
black king is in the center if
open vertical he will fall under attack
the knight beats on e4 the black take the pawn more
calm answer elephant e7 horse c3 d6
back to the fourth move black knight
beats on e4 d4 this white move continued
plan to open the line e horse c6
I suggest that White decides the fate of the elephant
be 5 elephant beats on c6 dc let f5 knight
as other fields for the departure of the horse
less profitable firs beats on d 8 king
beats on d 8 horse c3 this ending
met in thousands of parties objectively
White's position is slightly better but if
White plays the attacking chess player to him
pretty nasty play it's boring
endgame disadvantages black position
striking lack of castling and
corrupted pesic on queen structure
his flank
since f5 limits the possibilities
developing your own elephants and hits
under the same attack 2 4 + and black positions
lack of queens on the board and
respectively, the absence of acute
options the advantage of two elephants is not
roger van eyck role in case of exchange
rooks quickly come into play to what should
seek the parties in this endgame
first fight for line d white must
whenever possible to keep lags exchange to
it is also not profitable for them to spend 5 6
so that blacks have to beat
f7 beats on e6 at some point
transfer the game to the pawn endgame
accordingly black needs to do everything
vice versa
I do not and the job will consider the following
batch e4 e5 horse f3 horse c6
elephant b5 horse f6 castling horse beats on
e4 rook on e1 more often play up to 4
now the right thing to do was
black horse c6
for example a horse beats on e5 a horse beats on e5
rook beat on e5 check elephant e7
elephant d3 castling horse c3 elephant
f6 equal chances but on the fifth move
black played f5 how to use
this error in the next assignment after
initial moves e4 e5 nf3 nc6
bishop b5 knight f6 castling conde od e4
rook her one horse c6
knight beats on e5 knight beats on e5 rook
beats on e5 check elephant e7
knight c3 black played knight beats on b5
how to use this black error
Answers, see lesson 73
and type
building lesson 71 is doing on the seventh move
you can not play as well because they
come under strong attack and h2 horse
one more mistake figure is better to give
afterburner 4
rook and one bishop c5 d4 bishop beats on d4
E36 bishop beats h2 king king f1
f6-horse d2- horse castling and black
are winning
after 7 moves , but if White gives up
the figure is possible the next option d 3
same fps poor in three versions h4 queen h3
the queen beats our 3a rook beats on h3
same king 2
h8 rook with black advantage